# Modules in JavaScript
Modules allow you to organize and manage your code by splitting it into separate, reusable pieces. This helps keep your codebase clean and maintainable by encapsulating functionality and managing dependencies.

They help you structure your code into smaller, manageable units and make it easier to reuse code across different parts of your application.

Modules can load each other and use special directives export and import to interchange functionality, call functions of one module from another one:

- `export` keyword labels variables and functions that should be accessible from outside the current module.
- `import` allows the import of functionality from other modules.

Imagine we have a file `greet.js` that exports a function to greet users with a customizable message:

```jsx
// 📁 greet.js
export function greet(user, message) {
  alert(`${message}, ${user}!`);
}
```
This `greet` function takes two parameters: `user` (the name of the person) and `message` (a custom greeting message).

In another file,` main.js`, we import the greet function and use it to greet a user with a specific message:

```jsx
// 📁 main.js
import { greet } from './greet.js';

greet('Alice', 'Good morning'); // Alerts: "Good morning, Alice!"
greet('Bob', 'Welcome');        // Alerts: "Welcome, Bob!"
```

<br>


## Features of JavaScript Modules

- **Strict Mode by Default**

  Modules in JavaScript automatically operate in strict mode. This means certain actions, like assigning values to undeclared variables, will result in an error:
  ```jsx
  <script type="module">
    a = 5; // error
  </script>
  ```
<br> 

- **Module-Level Scope**

  Each module has its own scope. Variables and functions defined at the top level of one module are not accessible to others. For example, if `hello.js` tries to access a variable from `user.js` without importing it, an error will occur because they exist in separate scopes:
  ```jsx
  <script type="module" src="user.js"></script>
  <script type="module" src="hello.js"></script>
  ```

  To share variables or functions between modules, you need to use export in the source module and import in the target module:
  ```jsx
  // user.js
  export let user = "John";
  
  // hello.js
  import { user } from './user.js';
  document.body.innerHTML = user; // John
  ```

<br> 

- **Isolated Scopes for `<script type="module">`**

  In HTML, when using `<script type="module">`, each script runs in isolation. This means that variables declared in one module script are not visible to others:
  ```jsx
  <script type="module">
    let user = "John";
  </script>
  
  <script type="module">
    alert(user); // Error: user is not defined
  </script>
  ```
  However, if you need to make a variable global across modules, you can assign it to `window`, though this practice is generally discouraged.

<br> 

- **One-Time Evaluation**

  A module’s code is only executed the first time it’s imported. Subsequent imports of the same module receive the already evaluated exports. For instance, if a module logs a message upon loading, it will only do so once, regardless of how many times it’s imported:
  ```jsx
  // alert.js
  alert("Module is evaluated!");
  
  // 1.js
  import './alert.js'; // Module is evaluated!
  
  // 2.js
  import './alert.js'; // (no alert, as the module was already evaluated)
  ```

<br> 

- **`import.meta`**

  The `import.meta` object contains metadata about the current module. In the browser, this includes the module’s URL:
  ```jsx
  <script type="module">
    alert(import.meta.url); // URL of the script
  </script>
  ```

<br> 

- **`this` in Modules**

  In modules, the top-level `this` is `undefined`, unlike in non-module scripts where this refers to the global object:
  ```jsx
  <script>
    alert(this); // window
  </script>
  
  <script type="module">
    alert(this); // undefined
  </script>
  ```

<br>

## Export and Import
JavaScript modules offer various ways to export and import values. Here's a detailed guide on the different syntaxes and their uses:

- **Exporting Declarations**

  You can export variables, functions, and classes directly when declaring them by placing the export keyword before the declaration:
  ```jsx
  // Exporting an array
  export let months = ['Jan', 'Feb', 'Mar', 'Apr', 'Aug', 'Sep', 'Oct', 'Nov', 'Dec'];
  
  // Exporting a constant
  export const MODULES_BECAME_STANDARD_YEAR = 2015;
  
  // Exporting a class
  export class User {
    constructor(name) {
      this.name = name;
    }
  }
  ```
  <br>

- **Exporting Separately**

  You can declare items first and export them afterward:
  ```jsx
  // 📁 say.js
  function sayHi(user) {
    alert(`Hello, ${user}!`);
  }
  
  function sayBye(user) {
    alert(`Bye, ${user}!`);
  }
  
  export { sayHi, sayBye }; // Exporting functions
  ```
  <br>

- **Import Specific Exports**

  You can import specific items from a module:
  ```jsx
  // 📁 main.js
  import { sayHi, sayBye } from './say.js';
  
  sayHi('John'); // Hello, John!
  sayBye('John'); // Bye, John!
  ```
  <br>

- **Import All Exports**

  If a module has many exports, you can import everything as a single object:
  ```jsx
  import * as say from './say.js';
  
  say.sayHi('John');
  say.sayBye('John');
  ```
  <br>

- **Import with Aliases**
  ```jsx
  import { sayHi as hi, sayBye as bye } from './say.js';
  
  hi('John'); // Hello, John!
  bye('John'); // Bye, John!
  ```
  <br>

- **Default Exports**

  Modules often export a single main entity using `export default`:

  ```jsx
  export default class User {
    constructor(name) {
      this.name = name;
    }
  }
  ```

  To import a default export, you don't use curly braces:
  ```jsx
  import User from './user.js';
  
  new User('John');
  ```
  <br>
  
<br>

## Module Formats
There are two primary module formats in JavaScript:

### → Common JS
CommonJS is the default module system in Node.js (until ES Modules support was added in later versions). It was designed with synchronous module loading in mind, suitable for server environments.

#### <ins>Syntax</ins>
- **Exporting:** In CommonJS, modules export functionality using module.exports.
  ```jsx
  // add.js
  function add(a, b) {
    return a + b;
  }
  
  module.exports = add;
  ```
- **Importing:** Modules are imported using require.
  ```jsx
  // main.js
  const add = require('./add');
  console.log(add(2, 3)); // 5
  ```

<br>

### → ES Modules
ESM is now the preferred module system for both client-side JavaScript (in browsers) and server-side JavaScript (in Node.js environments).

#### <ins>Syntax</ins>
- **Exporting:** ESM allows both named exports and a default export.
  ```jsx
  // math.js
  export function add(a, b) {
    return a + b;
  }
  
  export function subtract(a, b) {
    return a - b;
  }
  ```
- **Importing:** You use import to bring in the exported functions or variables.
  ```jsx
  /// main.js
  import { add, subtract } from './math.js';
  console.log(add(2, 3)); // 5
  console.log(subtract(5, 2)); // 3
  ```

<br>

## References

For further reading and detailed explanations on JavaScript modules, you can refer to the following resources:

- [JavaScript Modules: Introduction](https://javascript.info/modules-intro) - An introduction to JavaScript modules and their benefits.
- [JavaScript Modules: Import and Export](https://javascript.info/import-export) - A guide to the `import` and `export` statements for handling module dependencies.
- [JavaScript Modules: Dynamic Imports](https://javascript.info/modules-dynamic-imports) - Information on using dynamic imports for lazy loading and code splitting.